fine grained rbac (not fully approved but almost complete with peer/tech preview) (#7962)
open-cluster-management/rhacm-docs: secure_cluster/fine_grain_rbac.adoc

[#fine-grain-rbac]
= Implementing fine-grained role-based access control (Technology Preview*)

{acm} supports fine-grained role-based access control (RBAC). As a cluster administrator, you can manage and control permissions at the namespace level on managed clusters, rather than at the cluster level. Grant permissions to a namespace without granting permission to the entire managed cluster, or virtual machine, to further secure your clusters.

> 

Reviewer: Suggestion - rephrasing the last sentence to something like - 

`Grant permission to virtual machines based on namespaces they belong in a managed cluster. Cannot grant permissions to individual virtual machines, but can grant permissions to all virtual machines in cluster `(yes... we can still do this...)

*Required access:* Cluster administrator

To learn about {ocp-short} default and virtualization roles and permissions, see link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/openshift_container_platform/4.17/html/virtualization/about#authorization_virt-security-policies[Authorization] in the {ocp-short} documentation.

See xref:../secure_cluster/rbac_implement_rhacm.adoc#rhacm-rbac-implement[Implementing role-based access control] for more details about {acm-short} role-based access.

.Prerequisites

See the following requirement to manage fine-grained role-based access control:

. In your `MultiClusterHub` custom resource `spec.overrides.components` field, set `fine-grained-rbac-preview` to `true` to enable the feature.
. In your `MultiClusterHub` custom resource `spec.overrides.components` field, set `search` to `enabled` to retrieve a list of managed clusters namespaces that can represent virtual machines that are used for access control.

> . Create the `ClusterRoles` resource. If you installed operators that create cluster roles for you, you already have this requirement.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
This line is not needed. ClusterRole is a default k8s resource and should always exist.

> . On the hub cluster `ClusterRole` resource, add the `rbac.open-cluster-management.io/filter: vm-clusterroles` label so that you see cluster roles in the console when you create or edit cluster permissions. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
We no longer need this line. The kubevirt roles will be automatically labeled, I confirmed with Gus that this will be added to 2.14: [ACM-21408](https://issues.redhat.com/browse/ACM-21408)

> . Ensure you have virtual machines by creating or migrating them on the hub cluster, which gives the managed cluster namespaces.

Reviewer 2: Not sure what this means: "which gives the managed cluster namespaces.". Maybe we can remove this line, unless I am missing something.

Author: I was taking content from the issue and watching multiple demos, so at some point it likely was mentioned. Not sure. I can remove it.

. Verify that the `ClusterPermission` resource is created and is in ready status.

[#assign-fine-grain-rbac]
== Assigning fine-grained role-based access control

> *Technology Preview:* You can assign users to manage virtual machines with fine-grained role-based access control. Action buttons are disabled in the console if the user-role access is not permitted.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*Technology Preview:* You can assign users to manage virtual machines with fine-grained role-based access control. Actions will not be allowed in the console if the user-role access is not permitted.
```

Changed this because this is not always the case. Some actions are like this (button greyed out) and some are not. When doing VM operations, the buttons are not greyed out, instead they will get an error message saying "access denied".

Author: Thanks, I committed most suggestions. I will take this in my own updates and change bc we use active/present, sometimes past tense...not supposed to use perfect tenses (translation; some countries don't use tense and it becomes unnecessary extra effort to understand, and a bit wordy)

changing: Actions are not allowed in the console if the user-role access is not permitted.

Author: actually changing to: Action are disabled in the console if the user-role access is not permitted.

You can grant access to the following roles for {ocp-virt-short}, which are extensions of the default roles:

- `kubevirt.io:view`: only view resources
- `kubevirt.io:edit`: modify resources
- `kubevirt.io:admin`: view, modify, delete resources; grant permissions

> . As a cluster administrator, click *AccessControlManagement* > *Add Access Control* in the console.

Reviewer 3: consider this ticket is supposed to be added as a part of the 2.14.0 release https://issues.redhat.com/browse/ACM-21610. See image attached
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/43b21b91-edb3-4183-a7cf-f38b65316872)

So I would adapt it to 
```suggestion
. As a cluster administrator, click *Access control* > *Create permission* in the console.
```

. *Optional:* Click the *YAML* option on to see the metadata that you enter populate in the *Access Control YAML* window.

> . In the _Basic information_ window, add the information for your cluster permission, such as the cluster and the user or group. Choose the cluster or virtual machine with the specific namespace that requires permission.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. In the _Basic information_ window, add the information for your cluster permission, such as the cluster and the user or group. Choose the cluster or specific virtual machine namespaces that the user requires permission for.
```

Author: Will work on this line, ideally not to end with the word for, but keep the same meaning.

Author: In formal technical doc, we do not end the sentence with a preposition, so see how that works. The line previously did say something similar, though.

> . Add the `Role Bindings` information, such as the namespaces in the cluster or virtual machine, users or groups, and roles, such as `kubevirt.io:view` for fine-grained role-based access control. You can choose a combination of `RoleBindings`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Add the `Role Bindings` information, such as the namespaces in the cluster, users or groups, and roles, such as `kubevirt.io:view` for fine-grained role-based access control. You can choose a combination of `RoleBindings`.
```

Reviewer 2: Users choose namespaces, but not virtual machines

> . Add the `Role Bindings` information, such as the namespaces in the cluster or virtual machine, users or groups, and roles, such as `kubevirt.io:view` for fine-grained role-based access control. You can choose a combination of `RoleBindings`.

Reviewer 3: due to https://issues.redhat.com/browse/ACM-21610
```suggestion
. Add the `Role bindings` information, such as the namespaces in the cluster or virtual machine, users or groups, and roles, such as `kubevirt.io:view` for fine-grained role-based access control. You can choose a combination of `RoleBindings`.
```

> . Add the `Cluster Role Binding` information with the same information.

Reviewer 3: due to https://issues.redhat.com/browse/ACM-21610
```suggestion
. Add the `Cluster role binding` information with the same information.
```

Reviewer 3: I would also add here, the Namespaces are read only and "All Namespaces" are selected by default

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/dc674769-cb4f-4bad-8fed-f2de83fc6d6c)

+

> *Note:* One cluster permission is used for each managed cluster. You do not need both the role binding and the cluster role binding.

Reviewer 2: RoleBinding is for setting permissions at the namespace level. ClusterRoleBinding is for setting permissions at the cluster level. ACM admins may choose to use either 1 or both. They must use at least one (RoleBinding or ClusterRoleBinding) in a ClusterPermission for it to be valid. We should include wording saying as such.

//not sure what the difference is between `Role Bindings` and `Cluster Role Binding` in the console.

> . Review and click *Add*.

Reviewer 3: due to https://issues.redhat.com/browse/ACM-21610
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/bf7c2b87-39b3-4747-8f4b-dabf5c683580)

```suggestion
. Review and click *Create permission*.
```

. Check for a `Ready` status in the console, though for the Technology Preview, you might not see a valid status for all possible `ClusterPermissions` combinations. 

> . Click *Edit access control* to edit the `Role Bindings` and `Cluster Role Binding`.

Reviewer 3: due to https://issues.redhat.com/browse/ACM-21610

```suggestion
. Click *Edit permission* to edit the `Role bindings` and `Cluster role binding`.
```

. *Optional:* Click *Export YAML* to use the resources

> //why would they do this?

Reviewer 2: Just to answer your question, admins can export yaml and use it as a template for creating k8s resources through git ops or cli.

. You can delete the `ClusterPermissions` resource when you are ready.

> See the following example of the `ClusterRole` resource, with roles for {ocp-virt-short} and the `ClusterRoleBinding`resource:

Reviewer 2: This should be worded differently. It is not really meant to be shown as an example, but these need to be applied on the hub cluster as workarounds to bugs and limitations. These need to be applied before the user that is getting permissions assigned to them logs into the hub, or else their user experience will be poor.

See the notes I added in from the End to End Testing doc. Customer needs to change cluster names and subjects based on the users/groups they are adding for RBAC through ClusterPermission.

Author: We have **tasks** and **concepts** in the RBAC folder. We don't document known issues or workarounds within those procedures.

This content was taken from the template and the demos, but the content at the bottom in the google doc was not in the template, so I didn't see it.

This doc will look something like this formally:
https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_advanced_cluster_management_for_kubernetes/2.13/html/multicluster_engine_operator_with_red_hat_advanced_cluster_management/mce-acm-integration#discover-hosted-acm 

(this is why we provide links in the doc issue template so that everyone knows how we format the doc)

Notes are specific, steps are imperative for all users, if a workaround goes into the main doc, it goes in as a step bc it is for all readers. 

If this YAML is a workaround, that needs to be identified in a separate issue perhaps for troubleshooting. This issue is for the initial documentation procedure.

Limitations, known issues, etc...those are release notes. T-shooting is also an option. We go in to this here in the process doc:
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1YTqpZRH54Bnn4WJ2nZmjaCoiRtqmrc2w6DdQxe_yLZ8/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.9fvyr2rdriby

Reviewer 2: Sorry for the confusion. I called this "workaround" because to me that is what it is. However in reality, it is a setup requirement. The yaml I provided needs to be applied for the feature to work correctly.
